[music]
Recognizing our members of the armed forces
who have fallen, and supporting those who have served,
and returned home is a strong,
honored tradition of this campus.
This part of our legacy as an institution
and where we will continue to lead in the future.
We have long been the pioneer in higher education
that serves the physically disabled.
After World War II, Dr. Nugent fought
tirelessly to make the entire campus accessible
to returning wounded war vets.
Arguing rightfully,
that wounds and physical limitations
were no reason to waste a fertile and productive life.
Today, we take a giant step forward in continuing
this long storied tradition of being the leading
academic institution in the world for providing
higher education for those with physical disabilities.
I'm sure you will all agree with me,
this makes us all proud to be an Illini.
We, right now, have over 400 student veterans on this campus,
and more than 80% of them have served
in our most recent conflicts, in Afghanistan and Iraq.
They are part of the diversity of experience
and perspective that brings excellence
to our campus.
We're committed to developing services
to ensure that they have full access
to the Illinois experience.
The Chez Family Foundation Center for Wounded Veterans
in Higher Education will serve as a national resource
for student veterans with severe and multiple injuries
that will provide access to comprehensive,
world class,
educational programs,
personal assistant support,
and will continue to develop
and disseminate best practices that will be developed here.
What we will do here will
empower student veterans
to pursue their next
rewarding job assignment
and enable us all
to benefit from the
extraordinary
contributions they will
continue to make
to our nation.
And, in the best of
military traditions,
even those with the most severe impairments will not
be forgotten or left behind.
This generation is a generation like no other.
Um, we're coming back with injuries that, that we,
that no generation has come back with.
Double, triple amputees.
Traumatic brain injuries that we're not ready for,
and this gen...and nobody else is ready for.
But the University had the forethought of being ready
to transition and take on this next generation
and say, "Let's-let's go America,
let's hit this people, let's step forward and get ready,
and let's take on this battle ,
and let's, let's, let's help these guys out."
When I was laying in the bed at Walter Reed,
and I looked down at my arm,
I had 30 seconds of pain for myself,
I'm like "I'm not going to let this injury
make me a different person."
I'm not going to let this injury define who I am.
I'm going to define my injury,
and that's what the Center's going to do.
It's going to let these soldiers define
their injuries and become who they want to be.
And thank you, Mr. Chez
and thank you, University of Illinois
and thank you, everybody who's, who's
donated to this and let's get some more.
It takes all of us, from public agencies to really
generous families and citizens, to schools,
it takes all of us to support veterans in the transition
back to civilian life.
The real heroes, the real heroes, are those
who have, uh, the courage, to serve in the military
and defend the country and to serve, uh, with honor,
there is no greater, uh, service than to be
in the military and to defend the country.
Our responsibility to everybody here is to do
more on behalf of Garrett and other veterans who
have demonstrated their service to America,
and so this great effort led by the University of Illinois
is a wonderful step in that direction.
We are really incidental to that effort and it's our honor.
Thank you.
[music]